# Vanderwall
*nix software firewall rule generator and associated network services manager

This is a set of bash scripts that I have written that collectively can work together to form a fully featured firewall that can run on a *nix distribution assuming your distribution is safe for being exposed directly to a DIA line. Eventually this will all be migrated into a single script, and I will at that point consider writing a simple web interface to control the firewall. I will need some help at that point. UI/UX experts and people familiar with secure web deployments with a focus on portability. Specifically, I dislike almost all the FOSS and propriatary interfaces that I have worked with for firewalls. Some do pretty okay, but there are glaring faults and inconsistencies across almost all firewall softwares available.

I do not wish to create "another fork" that will be ignored for firewalls this software will stand out as it will be produced in such a way as to focus on containerization and simple Lego brick style LANs that can be easily point and click interacted with for those who don't want to learn all the nuances of firewalling or specific firewall softwares.

The lack of containerization options for software firewalls seems a huge issue to me. An example I have personally experienced is getting OpenWRT running on PVE. This process is not a straightforward task. There are certainly other ready built solutions, though many revolve around "shipping my system". For instance, Docker, which is not as latency competitive (nor as easy to manage overall).

There are some examples that approach the end user easy experience Lego brick style concept, but none seem fully fleshed out. This genuinely is not that difficult in my opinion, and I will document how a basic small set of network types should be able to encompass everything 99% of users need. If you need/want something special you should also be able to break away from these predetermined networks at your leisure or create a basic empty network. Instead most firewalls seem to follow awkward partially free-form network creation that don't seem to have consistency within the industry and lead to an industry where the average user is stranded by confusion and gives up rather than waste their time.
